# Music Creation
Comp 580 Final Project

Team: Justyn Felder, Paige Sullivan, Giulia Curcelli

Contacts: {jbfelder, psull, curcelli}@live.unc.edu

# Design Documentation
### Concept and Implementation 

My group designed a musical creation game that will allow individuals to use their imagination create different songs and follow along with a game of Simon Says. For this game to proceed, users will be allowed to choose between two different genres of music: electric and hip-hop through the use of an Xbox 360 controller by either clicking the “LB” or “RB” buttons on the controller. Alternatively, users will also have the option of pressing the Xbox symbol button on the controller that will allow them to gain access to a tutorial page that will inform them of what each button is before they actually begin. To leave from this tutorial page, they will have to click the mouse to be sent back to the home page. Regardless of which button they hit, they will be sent to the “creation” page of the genre choice. At this point they will receive instruction on how to further progress. If they wish to continue on the “creation” page, they will have to press the “start” button on the controller that will initiate a beat that will loop until the user presses the “select” button. Regardless of their choice to let the beat loop, the user will then be able to use the face button (‘A’, ‘B’, ‘X’, and ‘Y’) to play certain sounds that will initiate independent of the beat. They will have as much time as they want in order to make whatever sounds they like. On these “creation” pages, they will also have the option of pressing the “LT” button to send them back to the main page or pressing the “RT” button to send them to the respective genre choice’s Simon Says page. If the user wished to return to the tutorial page at any point, all they must do is click the Xbox symbol button. If the user decides to access their genre choice’s Simon Says component, they will partake in two rounds of the game. To start these games, users must hit the “start” button. In the first round, users will hear the names of buttons spoken to them and must respond back by hitting the same buttons in the same order spoken. As these buttons are pressed, the buttons respective sounds will also play. Once all combinations are made, they will then proceed to the second round. In the second round, the users will hear sound played and they must respond with the same sounds. If at anytime the user wishes to skip the first round to reach the second, all they have to do is press the “RT” button. If they ever wish to return to the main page, they must press the “LT” button.  However once users reach the second round of Simon Says, the “LT” button will send them back to the first round and the “RT” button will send them to the “creation” page. Users will be able to do any of the actions stated as many times as they wish.
  
  Our target audience are individuals, specifically children, who have some sort of visual impairment. By using a text-to-speech API, a controller with buttons mapped to specific locations, and making our game centered around music, users should be able to obtain the full experience of the game without ever needing the sense of sight. However, if any users with the ability of sight play our game, there will still be on screen text and many graphics that also make it visually appealing.
 
 As described above, a key part of our game is using an X-box controller. We implemented this by simply installing a driver onto our macs so the browser would detect the controller, and then we used simple JavaScript commands to code with the controller after this. All of our source code, which can be found on the web server under 580-Musical Quest, is written in JavaScript, and we used several APIs to assist us. We used the Howler API to use and access custom sounds stored in the web server. We also used the ResponsiveVoice API to speak all of the text to the users so they would have the instructions for each web page. We encountered a few difficulties when creating this game. The first difficulty was the sensitivity of the Xbox controller. Upon implementing our Simon Says game, we found the easiest way to match the desired sequence with the user’s input was to use arrays, and each button that was pushed would be added to the array and we would check that these values matched. However, the controller is so sensitive that one must lightly tap each button, otherwise it will log multiple presses into the array, triggering the end of game.   
  
  The freestyle creation aspect of the game runs very well. The background noise will play when the start button is pressed, stop when the select button is pressed, and A, B, X, Y all have their own sounds. This part worked well because we didn’t have to worry about if a button was accidentally pressed more than once—and holding down the button created a fast beat that the users can utilize in their song. 

### Issues 
Another issue we faced was after experiencing an end of game. Typically, after pressing the start button, all of our variables should reset and one can simply begin a new game. However, for some reason, after pressing start, the “wrong noise” sound would play, despite the user pressing the correct keys. After debugging this for hours, we could still not figure out why this error occurred. However, when using the game with the kids on Maze Day, we side-stepped this issue by refreshing the page and pressing start for them if they ever encountered an error. If the user can step through the game without getting a step wrong in Simon Says, the game works effortlessly. Otherwise, there may be some wrong noise sounds triggered unexpectedly, but the game can still run. 

